README.md, before:

## RayTracer
**CPU and GPU Ray Tracer**

Features:
- Sphere and static mesh
- Specular, emissive and emissive materials
- Gloss, reflection and refraction
- Focal length and aperture
- Blend between perspective and orthographic projection

## Godot scene exporter
The `godot_plugin` folder contains an editor plugin that exports the currently edited Godot scene to the RayTracer JSON format whenever the scene changes.

1. Copy `godot_plugin/addons/raytracer_exporter` into your Godot project `addons/` folder.
2. Enable **RayTracer Exporter** in **Project Settings → Plugins**.
3. Set **Editor Settings → raytracer/export_path** to the absolute path of `Workspace/scene.json`.
4. Add `raytracer_material_id` metadata to objects so the exported `material_id` matches an entry in `Workspace/rendering.json`.
5. RayTracer watches `scene.json` and reloads it automatically when the file changes.

Supported nodes:
- **SphereMesh** → sphere export (radius uses node scale).
- **PlaneMesh** → xz rectangle export (rotation is ignored; uses node scale).
- **MeshInstance3D** with `raytracer_file_name` metadata → static mesh export.

Optional metadata:
- `raytracer_type`: override type (`sphere`, `static_mesh`, `xz_rect`, `xy_rect`, `yz_rect`).
- `raytracer_shape_index`: mesh shape index for static meshes.
- `raytracer_size`: `Vector2` size for `xy_rect`/`yz_rect` exports.
- Camera: `raytracer_aspect_ratio_w`, `raytracer_aspect_ratio_h`, `raytracer_aperture`, `raytracer_dist_to_focus`, `raytracer_projection`.

![x1](x1.jpg)
![x2](x2.jpg)

## Releases

### 2.4
- GPU-based implementation (compute shader)

### 2.3
- Cornell box scene finalized
- Static mesh rendering
    - Backface detection for transparency
    - No acceleration structude ofr triangles yet
    - No static mesh assets yet
- ISPC integrated with the project and used for basic 
- Better compile times 
- CppCheck and BuildInsights pass
- Huge code refactor
- Better logging with spdlog

### 2.2
- Full scene editor
    - Flying camera
    - Object selection and movement
    - Material editor

![User interface](Screenshot22.png)

### 2.1
- The same set of materials and primitives
- Renderer interface, with example and reference CPU renderer, easy to hot-swap with another version
- Simpler algorithm, no PDF in use
- Refraction with smoothness
- Coloured refraction
- Gloss with smoothness

![Example output](ExampleOutput2.png)

### 1.0
Based on books: [Ray Tracing in One Weekend] by Peter Shirley

![User interface](Screenshot.png)

- Editor UI
    - Scene setup: spawn/delete/move/edit object properties
    - Render parameters
    - Settings
    - Real time output update
    - Save output to BMP file
- Renderer
	- Monte Carlo based method, mix of light and surface cosine based probability density functions (PDF)
	- Multiple renderer implementations:
	    - **Reference CPU**: Full path tracing on CPU with PPL parallelization
	    - **GPU Reference**: GPU-accelerated path tracing using compute shaders
	    - **Preview**: Fast preview renderer for editing
	    - **ISPC**: Intel SPMD Program Compiler version (example only)
	- Multithreading: thread poll, PLL, none
	- Support for SIMD
    - DirectX 11 based display
	- Anti aliasing
	- No denoising
    - Starting code for the review: frame_renderer::render() and frame_renderer::ray_color()
- Renderer variables
    - Resolution
    - Work distribution: stripes, chunks
    - Rays per pixel, ray bounces
- Camera setup
    - Projections: Perspective/orthografic/blend
    - Focus distance
    - Aperture
    - Aspect ratio
- Specular, diffuse, emissive materials:
    - Metal: copper, gold, silver, steel
    - Dialectric: glass, sapphire, moissanite, diamond, water
    - Texture: solid, checker
    - Lambertian: basic colors
    - Diffuse light: a few strength types
- Primitives: 
    -  Sphere
    -  XY rectangle
    -  XZ rectangle
    -  ZY rectangle

![Example output](ExampleOutput.png)

## Third party dependencies
DirectX 11

[ocornut/imgui] v1.87

[nlohmann/json] v3.10.5

[PIX for Windows] v1.0.220124001

[STB Image] v2.27

[Tiny obj] v1.0.6

[spdlog] v1.x

[ispc] v1.19.0

[//]: # (links)

   [ocornut/imgui]: <https://github.com/ocornut/imgui>
   [nlohmann/json]: <https://github.com/nlohmann/json>
   [PIX for Windows]: <https://devblogs.microsoft.com/pix/download>
   [STB Image]: <http://nothings.org/stb>
   [Tiny obj]: <https://github.com/tinyobjloader/tinyobjloader>
   [spdlog]: <https://github.com/gabime/spdlog/tree/v1.x>
   [ispc]: <https://ispc.github.io/>

Commit message:

Final scene + mesh rotation bugfix + readme

README.md, after:

## RayTracer
**CPU and GPU Ray Tracer**

Features:
- Sphere and static mesh
- Specular, emissive and emissive materials
- Gloss, reflection and refraction
- Focal length and aperture
- Blend between perspective and orthographic projection

![ui1](ui1.jpg)

Integration with Godot 4.6 for real time scene edition
![ui2](ui2.jpg)

## Gallery

![x1](x1.jpg)
![x2](x2.jpg)

## Releases

### 2.5
- Integration with Godod

### 2.4
- GPU-based implementation (compute shader)

### 2.3
- Cornell box scene finalized
- Static mesh rendering
    - Backface detection for transparency
    - No acceleration structude ofr triangles yet
    - No static mesh assets yet
- ISPC integrated with the project and used for basic 
- Better compile times 
- CppCheck and BuildInsights pass
- Huge code refactor
- Better logging with spdlog

### 2.2
- Full scene editor
    - Flying camera
    - Object selection and movement
    - Material editor

![User interface](Screenshot22.png)

### 2.1
- The same set of materials and primitives
- Renderer interface, with example and reference CPU renderer, easy to hot-swap with another version
- Simpler algorithm, no PDF in use
- Refraction with smoothness
- Coloured refraction
- Gloss with smoothness

![Example output](ExampleOutput2.png)

### 1.0
Based on books: [Ray Tracing in One Weekend] by Peter Shirley

![User interface](Screenshot.png)

- Editor UI
    - Scene setup: spawn/delete/move/edit object properties
    - Render parameters
    - Settings
    - Real time output update
    - Save output to BMP file
- Renderer
	- Monte Carlo based method, mix of light and surface cosine based probability density functions (PDF)
	- Multiple renderer implementations:
	    - **Reference CPU**: Full path tracing on CPU with PPL parallelization
	    - **GPU Reference**: GPU-accelerated path tracing using compute shaders
	    - **Preview**: Fast preview renderer for editing
	    - **ISPC**: Intel SPMD Program Compiler version (example only)
	- Multithreading: thread poll, PLL, none
	- Support for SIMD
    - DirectX 11 based display
	- Anti aliasing
	- No denoising
    - Starting code for the review: frame_renderer::render() and frame_renderer::ray_color()
- Renderer variables
    - Resolution
    - Work distribution: stripes, chunks
    - Rays per pixel, ray bounces
- Camera setup
    - Projections: Perspective/orthografic/blend
    - Focus distance
    - Aperture
    - Aspect ratio
- Specular, diffuse, emissive materials:
    - Metal: copper, gold, silver, steel
    - Dialectric: glass, sapphire, moissanite, diamond, water
    - Texture: solid, checker
    - Lambertian: basic colors
    - Diffuse light: a few strength types
- Primitives: 
    -  Sphere
    -  XY rectangle
    -  XZ rectangle
    -  ZY rectangle

![Example output](ExampleOutput.png)

## Third party dependencies
DirectX 11

[ocornut/imgui] v1.87

[nlohmann/json] v3.10.5

[PIX for Windows] v1.0.220124001

[STB Image] v2.27

[Tiny obj] v1.0.6

[spdlog] v1.x

[ispc] v1.19.0

[//]: # (links)

   [ocornut/imgui]: <https://github.com/ocornut/imgui>
   [nlohmann/json]: <https://github.com/nlohmann/json>
   [PIX for Windows]: <https://devblogs.microsoft.com/pix/download>
   [STB Image]: <http://nothings.org/stb>
   [Tiny obj]: <https://github.com/tinyobjloader/tinyobjloader>
   [spdlog]: <https://github.com/gabime/spdlog/tree/v1.x>
   [ispc]: <https://ispc.github.io/>
